Welcome back everyone.
For the solution to machine learning interview question number seven.
So this question was just in general describe how the support vector machine or SVM algorithm works.
So let's go ahead and give a brief overview of how it works.
So support vector machine.
What it does it attempts to find a hyperplane that separates classes by maximizing the margin.
So we can see here a very simple example of support vector classification.
So here we have some red squares and blue circles that we're trying to classify.
So we end up doing is we define a hyperplane along these two them mentions and then we find these margins
are trying to maximize the margin basically trying to get as much space as we can between these two
classes.
The filled in points in this diagram are what we call the support vectors and those are ones against
that decision.
Hyperplane where off the optimal hyperplane we have these margins and that's where we make our decision.
So if we have a new point depending on where it lies on the hyperplane that's where we're going to classify
it.
So you can see here clearly if we have something with a low X-1 value and a low X-2 value that falls
on the other side of that max margin.
So that will be classified as a Red Square and vice versa something really high X1 value and a really
high X to value is going to fall on the other side of the other margin.
And then there will be classified as a blue circle.
So those filled end points the ones that rest against that margin or what is actually called the support
vector because it's essentially supporting that margin.
So here we're actually showing linear classification but remember that support vector machines can perform
nonlinear classification.
So support vector machines the employee what's called the kernel trick which can map linear non separable
inputs into a higher dimension where they become more easily separable and you can check out lots of
great visualizations online and the resources in your guidebook to visualize how you can view something
in a higher dimension in order to separate it.
OK I hope that was helpful.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.